#summary Downloading and Installing libcam

== From Source ==

To install from source, replace _x.y.z_ with the latest version and:
{{{
wget http://libcam.googlecode.com/files/libcam-x.y.z.tar.gz
tar xzvf libcam-x.y.z.tar.gz
cd libcam-x.y.z
./configure
make
make install 
}}}

== Mac OS X ==

libcam 0.0.2 has been built and run successfully on Mac OS 10.5 (Leopard).  To build, you will need glib and gtk+ installed, which I suggest getting from [http://darwinports.com/ Darwinports].  After installing darwinports, run:
{{{
sudo port install glib2
sudo port install gtk2
}}}
to install the glib and gtk+.

IIDC camera support works if you have libdc1394-2.0.0-rc9 installed.  After installing libdc1394, you may need to run:
{{{
export PKG_CONFIG_PATH=/usr/local/lib/pkgconfig
}}}
in order for the libcam ./configure script to detect libdc1394.

== Debian / Ubuntu ==

Debian and Ubuntu packages for libcam are available for x86 and amd_64.  There's a chance that I haven't built libcam for a particular distribution or architecture.  This is mostly because of my limited access to development machines.  If you need one that's not yet built, let me know and I'll try to build one.  Otherwise, you can install from source. _--albert_

First, make sure you have Albert's sources file.

=== Configuring apt and sources.list ===

*Ubuntu 7.10 Gutsy Gibbon*

{{{
sudo wget http://people.csail.mit.edu/albert/debian/gutsy.list -O /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ashuang.list
}}}

*Debian unstable*

{{{
sudo wget http://people.csail.mit.edu/albert/debian/unstable.list -O /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ashuang.list
}}}

Next, make sure you have Albert's GPG key in your apt keyring.

{{{
wget -q http://people.csail.mit.edu/albert/debian/ashuang-key.gpg -O- | sudo apt-key add - && sudo apt-get update
}}}

=== Packages ===

libcam has been split into the following packages.  If you just want to run camview, then install `libcam-gtk-utils`.  If you plan on developing applications with libcam, then install all of the packages.

|| `libcam1` || core library ||
|| `libcam1-dev` || development files ||
|| `libcam-utils` || core library utilities, such as camlog ||
|| `libcam-gtk1` || library of GTK+ widgets for libcam ||
|| `libcam-gtk1-dev` || development files ||
|| `libcam-gtk-utils` || camview and other utilities ||
|| `libcam-plugins-dc1394` || libcam plugin to use IEEE DC1394 cameras ||

== Subversion ==

To stay on the bleeding edge of libcam development, you'll want to work from our subversion repositories hosted on Google Code.

You will want at least the following:
 * libjpeg62 development files
 * OpenGL development files
 * GLIB/GTK+ development files
 * autotools (autoconf, automake, libtool, m4)
 * gtk-doc
 * docbook

 # Checkout the repository
{{{
$ svn checkout http://libcam.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ libcam-read-only
}}}
 # setup the build scripts
{{{
$ cd libcam-read-only
$ gtkdocize --copy
$ autoreconf -i
$ ./configure
}}}
 # (Optionally) mess with the source code
 # Build
{{{
make
}}}
 # Install (requires superuser privileges)
{{{
make install
}}}