#summary Older News

*Dec 17, 2008* - Release 0.1.1

  * camview: 
    * add FPS display, other minor UI tweaks
    * change "-f" option to "-c"
  * libcamunits:
    * !CamInputLog: add looping controls
    * add CAM_PIXEL_FORMAT_LE_GRAY16, opengl support
    * !CamLoggerUnit: add "auto-suffix-enable" control, option to disable auto suffix on filename
    * rename IS_ALIGNEDxx macros to CAM_IS_ALIGNEDxx
    * add better type safety to !CamUnitControl
    * !CamUnitManager bugfixes
  * libcamunits-gtk:
    * bugfixes in !UnitControlWidget
  * camlog
    * add "-c" option to load chain from XML description file
    * add "-o" option to specify output file
    * add "-f" option to force overwrite of existing files

*Nov 11, 2008* - New project name, release 0.1.0

The [http://libcam.googlecode.com libcam] project is renamed to Camunits.  Reasons for the renaming are:
  # Avoid conflicting name with BSD libcam, a completely unrelated project.
  # Reduce confusion between the core library (libcamunit) and the whole project (libcamunit, libcamunit-gtk, camview, camlog, plugins, etc.)
  # Choose a new name that more closely reflects the core design.

To mark the new project name, version 0.1.0 is also being released.  Notable changes:

  * better support for 16-bit pixel formats
  * input_dc1394: include format7 mode in output format string
  * unit_manager: on failure to open plugin dir, warn in dbg instead of stderr
  * unit_chain:   store output format name in saved XML.
  * unit_control_widget: slightly smarter about format changing
  * minor bugfixes all around.

This release breaks the old API.  To port libcam code to Camunits code, 
replace all instances of "libcam" and "LIBCAM" with "camunits" and "CAMUNITS",
respectively.  This applies to source code, include paths, library names,
linker flags, environment variables, pkg-config names, etc.

The following two perl commands accomplish the search/replace:
{{{
   $ perl -pi -e "s/LIBCAM/CAMUNITS/g;" <files>
   $ perl -pi -e "s/libcam/camunits/g;" <files>
}}}

*July 16, 2008* - Released libcam 0.0.9

The changes from version 0.0.8 are:
  * unit manager widget UI enhancements
    * sort unit descriptions by unit name
    * toggle expansion of packages when package is double-clicked/activated
  * enable spinbutton for float unit control widget
  * warn when units produce framebuffers with zero bytesused and timestamp fields
  * fix some docs
  * fix accidental API change in 0.0.8

*June 13, 2008* - Released libcam 0.0.8

The changes from version 0.0.7 are:
  * add --no-gui option to camview
  * input_example: fix timestamps
  * camlog: fix thrashing for inexact log seeking (e.g. timestamps)
  * update tutorial
  * add qt4 examples
  * input_v4l: was not populating timestamp, bytesused.  fixed.

*April 17, 2008* - Released libcam 0.0.7

*April 9, 2008* - Released libcam 0.0.6

*February 14, 2008* - Released libcam 0.0.5

*January 8, 2008* - Released libcam 0.0.4

The changes from version 0.0.3 are:
  * add CAM_PIXEL_FORMAT_ANY
  * implement advance mode control in input_log
  * implement speed control in input_log
  * log - change file offsets in CamLogFrameInfo from uint64_t to in64_t
  *  CamUnitChainGLWidget - add "gl-draw-finished" signal

*December 20, 2007* - Released libcam 0.0.3

The changes from version 0.0.2 are:

  * Fixed the installation directory of libcam-gtk headers and renamed cam_gtk.h to cam-gtk.h.

*December 18, 2007* - Released libcam 0.0.2

The changes from version 0.0.1 are:

  * Now builds under Mac OS X (tested on Leopard)
  * Tutorial and examples improvements
  * Documentation improvements
  * Update DC1394 plugin to use libdc1394-2.0.0-rc9
  * Allow DC1394 modes other than Format 7
  * Added additional colorspace conversions
  * Allow bayer demosaic code to work on non-SSE3 CPUs (still requires SSE2)